**

# [LIBSVM](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm) FAQ

** **last modified : ** Mon, 29 Mar 2010 12:08:25 GMT 
* All Questions(76)

**
  * Q1:_Some_sample_uses_of_libsvm(2)
  * Q2:_Installation_and_running_the_program(10)
  * Q3:_Data_preparation(7)
  * Q4:_Training_and_prediction(33)
  * Q5:_Probability_outputs(3)
  * Q6:_Graphic_interface(3)
  * Q7:_Java_version_of_libsvm(4)
  * Q8:_Python_interface(5)
  * Q9:_MATLAB_interface(9)
**

    * Some courses which have used libsvm as a tool
    * Some applications which have used libsvm 
    * Where can I find documents of libsvm ?
    * Where are change log and earlier versions?
    * I would like to cite LIBSVM. Which paper should I cite? 
    * I would like to use libsvm in my software. Is there any license problem?
    * Is there a repository of additional tools based on libsvm?
    * On unix machines, I got "error in loading shared libraries" or "cannot open shared object file." What happened ? 
    * I have modified the source and would like to build the graphic interface "svm-toy" on MS windows. How should I do it ?
    * I am an MS windows user but why only one (svm-toy) of those precompiled .exe actually runs ? 
    * What is the difference between "." and "*" outputed during training? 
    * Why occasionally the program (including MATLAB or other interfaces) crashes and gives a segmentation fault?
    * Why sometimes not all attributes of a data appear in the training/model files ?
    * What if my data are non-numerical ?
    * Why do you consider sparse format ? Will the training of dense data be much slower ?
    * Why sometimes the last line of my data is not read by svm-train?
    * Is there a program to check if my data are in the correct format?
    * May I put comments in data files?
    * How to convert other data formats to LIBSVM format?
    * The output of training C-SVM is like the following. What do they mean?
    * Can you explain more about the model file?
    * Should I use float or double to store numbers in the cache ?
    * How do I choose the kernel?
    * Does libsvm have special treatments for linear SVM?
    * The number of free support vectors is large. What should I do?
    * Should I scale training and testing data in a similar way?
    * Does it make a big difference if I scale each attribute to [0,1] instead of [-1,1]?
    * The prediction rate is low. How could I improve it?
    * My data are unbalanced. Could libsvm handle such problems?
    * What is the difference between nu-SVC and C-SVC?
    * The program keeps running (without showing any output). What should I do?
    * The program keeps running (with output, i.e. many dots). What should I do?
    * The training time is too long. What should I do?
    * Does shrinking always help?
    * How do I get the decision value(s)?
    * How do I get the distance between a point and the hyperplane?
    * On 32-bit machines, if I use a large cache (i.e. large -m) on a linux machine, why sometimes I get "segmentation fault ?"
    * How do I disable screen output of svm-train and svm-predict ?
    * I would like to use my own kernel but find out that there are two subroutines for kernel evaluations: k_function() and kernel_function(). Which one should I modify ?
    * What method does libsvm use for multi-class SVM ? Why don't you use the "1-against-the rest" method ?
    * After doing cross validation, why there is no model file outputted ?
    * Why my cross-validation results are different from those in the Practical Guide?
    * But on some systems CV accuracy is the same in several runs. How could I use different data partitions?
    * I would like to solve L2-loss SVM (i.e., error term is quadratic). How should I modify the code ?
    * How do I choose parameters for one-class svm as training data are in only one class?
    * Why the code gives NaN (not a number) results?
    * Why on windows sometimes grid.py fails?
    * Why grid.py/easy.py sometimes generates the following warning message?
    * Why the sign of predicted labels and decision values are sometimes reversed?
    * I don't know class labels of test data. What should I put in the first column of the test file?
    * How can I use OpenMP to parallelize LIBSVM on a multicore/shared-memory computer?
    * How could I know which training instances are support vectors?
    * Why training a probability model (i.e., -b 1) takes a longer time?
    * Why using the -b option does not give me better accuracy?
    * Why using svm-predict -b 0 and -b 1 gives different accuracy values?
    * How can I save images drawn by svm-toy?
    * I press the "load" button to load data points but why svm-toy does not draw them ?
    * I would like svm-toy to handle more than three classes of data, what should I do ?
    * What is the difference between Java version and C++ version of libsvm?
    * Is the Java version significantly slower than the C++ version?
    * While training I get the following error message: java.lang.OutOfMemoryError. What is wrong?
    * Why you have the main source file svm.m4 and then transform it to svm.java?
    * On MS windows, why does python fail to load the pyd file?
    * How to modify the python interface on MS windows and rebuild the .pyd file ?
    * Except the python-C++ interface provided, could I use Jython to call libsvm ?
    * How could I install the python interface on Mac OS? 
    * I typed "make" on a unix system, but it says "Python.h: No such file or directory?"
    * I compile the MATLAB interface without problem, but why errors occur while running it?
    * On 64bit Windows I compile the MATLAB interface without problem, but why errors occur while running it?
    * Does the MATLAB interface provide a function to do scaling?
    * How could I use MATLAB interface for parameter selection?
    * I use MATLAB parallel programming toolbox on a multi-core environment for parameter selection. Why the program is even slower?
    * How do I use LIBSVM with OpenMP under MATLAB?
    * How could I generate the primal variable w of linear SVM?
    * Is there an OCTAVE interface for libsvm?
    * How to handle the name conflict between svmtrain in the libsvm matlab interface and that in MATLAB bioinformatics toolbox?

* * *

**Q: Some courses which have used libsvm as a tool**   

  * [Institute for Computer Science, Faculty of Applied Science, University of Freiburg, Germany ](http://lmb.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/lectures/svm_seminar/)
  * [ Division of Mathematics and Computer Science. Faculteit der Exacte Wetenschappen Vrije Universiteit, The Netherlands. ](http://www.cs.vu.nl/~elena/ml.html)
  * [ Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison ](http://www.cae.wisc.edu/~ece539/matlab/)
  * [ Technion (Israel Institute of Technology), Israel. 
  * [ Computer and Information Sciences Dept., University of Florida](http://www.cise.ufl.edu/~fu/learn.html)
  * [ The Institute of Computer Science, University of Nairobi, Kenya.](http://www.uonbi.ac.ke/acad_depts/ics/course_material/machine_learning/ML_and_DM_Resources.html)
  * [ Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Iceland. 
  * [ SVM tutorial in machine learning summer school, University of Chicago, 2005. ](http://chicago05.mlss.cc/tiki/tiki-read_article.php?articleId=2)

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Some applications which have used libsvm **   

  * [LIBPMK: A Pyramid Match Toolkit](http://people.csail.mit.edu/jjl/libpmk/)
  * [Maltparser](http://maltparser.org/): a system for data-driven dependency parsing 
  * [PyMVPA: python tool for classifying neuroimages](http://www.pymvpa.org/)
  * [ SOLpro: protein solubility predictor ](http://solpro.proteomics.ics.uci.edu/)
  * [ BDVAL](http://icb.med.cornell.edu/wiki/index.php/BDVAL): biomarker discovery in high-throughput datasets. 
  * [ Realtime object recognition](http://johel.m.free.fr/demo_045.htm)

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Where can I find documents of libsvm ?**   

In the package there is a README file which details all options, data format,
and library calls. The model selection tool and the python interface have a
separate README under the directory python. The guide [ A practical guide to
support vector classification
](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/papers/guide/guide.pdf) shows beginners
how to train/test their data. The paper [LIBSVM : a library for support vector
machines](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/papers/libsvm.pdf) discusses the
implementation of libsvm in detail.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Where are change log and earlier versions?**   

See [the change log](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm/log).

You can download earlier versions
[here](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm/oldfiles).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I would like to cite LIBSVM. Which paper should I cite? **   

Please cite the following document:

Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin, LIBSVM : a library for support vector
machines, 2001. Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm

The bibtex format is

    
    
    
    @Manual{CC01a,
      author =	 {Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin},
      title =	 {{LIBSVM}: a library for support vector machines},
      year =	 {2001},
      note =	 {Software available at \url{http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm}}
    }
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I would like to use libsvm in my software. Is there any license problem?**   

The libsvm license ("the modified BSD license") is compatible with many free
software licenses such as GPL. Hence, it is very easy to use libsvm in your
software. It can also be used in commercial products.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Is there a repository of additional tools based on libsvm?**   

Yes, see [libsvm tools](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvmtools)

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: On unix machines, I got "error in loading shared libraries" or "cannot open shared object file." What happened ? **   

This usually happens if you compile the code on one machine and run it on
another which has incompatible libraries. Try to recompile the program on that
machine or use static linking.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I have modified the source and would like to build the graphic interface "svm-toy" on MS windows. How should I do it ?**   

Build it as a project by choosing "Win32 Project." On the other hand, for
"svm-train" and "svm-predict" you want to choose "Win32 Console Project."
After libsvm 2.5, you can also use the file Makefile.win. See details in
README.

If you are not using Makefile.win and see the following link error

    
    
    
    LIBCMTD.lib(wwincrt0.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol
    _wWinMain@16
    

you may have selected a wrong project type.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I am an MS windows user but why only one (svm-toy) of those precompiled .exe actually runs ? **   

You need to open a command window and type svmtrain.exe to see all options.
Some examples are in README file.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: What is the difference between "." and "*" outputed during training? **   

"." means every 1,000 iterations (or every #data iterations is your #data is
less than 1,000). "*" means that after iterations of using a smaller shrunk
problem, we reset to use the whole set. See the [implementation
document](../papers/libsvm.pdf) for details.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why occasionally the program (including MATLAB or other interfaces) crashes and gives a segmentation fault?**   

Very likely the program consumes too much memory than what the operating
system can provide. Try a smaller data and see if the program still crashes.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why sometimes not all attributes of a data appear in the training/model files ?**   

libsvm uses the so called "sparse" format where zero values do not need to be
stored. Hence a data with attributes

    
    
    
    1 0 2 0
    

is represented as

    
    
    
    1:1 3:2
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: What if my data are non-numerical ?**   

Currently libsvm supports only numerical data. You may have to change non-
numerical data to numerical. For example, you can use several binary
attributes to represent a categorical attribute.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why do you consider sparse format ? Will the training of dense data be much slower ?**   

This is a controversial issue. The kernel evaluation (i.e. inner product) of
sparse vectors is slower so the total training time can be at least twice or
three times of that using the dense format. However, we cannot support only
dense format as then we CANNOT handle extremely sparse cases. Simplicity of
the code is another concern. Right now we decide to support the sparse format
only.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why sometimes the last line of my data is not read by svm-train?**   

We assume that you have '\n' in the end of each line. So please press enter in
the end of your last line.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Is there a program to check if my data are in the correct format?**   

The svm-train program in libsvm conducts only a simple check of the input
data. To do a detailed check, after libsvm 2.85, you can use the python script
tools/checkdata.py. See tools/README for details.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: May I put comments in data files?**   

No, for simplicity we don't support that. However, you can easily preprocess
your data before using libsvm. For example, if you have the following data

    
    
    
    test.txt
    1 1:2 2:1 # proten A
    

then on unix machines you can do

    
    
    
    cut -d '#' -f 1 < test.txt > test.features
    cut -d '#' -f 2 < test.txt > test.comments
    svm-predict test.feature train.model test.predicts
    paste -d '#' test.predicts test.comments | sed 's/#/ #/' > test.results
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How to convert other data formats to LIBSVM format?**   

It depends on your data format. We have a simple C code to transfer
space/colon separated format to libsvm format. Please contact us if needed.

Alternatively, a simple way is to use libsvmwrite in the libsvm matlab/octave
interface. Take a CSV (colon separated format) file in UCI machine learning
repository as an example. We download
[SPECTF.train](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-
databases/spect/SPECTF.train). Labels are in the first column. The following
steps produce a file in the libsvm format.

    
    
    
    matlab> SPECTF = csvread('SPECTF.train'); % read a csv file
    matlab> labels = SPECTF(:, 1); % labels from the 1st column
    matlab> features = SPECTF(:, 2:end); 
    matlab> features_sparse = sparse(features); % features must be in a sparse matrix
    matlab> libsvmwrite('SPECTFlibsvm.train', labels, features_sparse);
    

The tranformed data are stored in SPECTFlibsvm.train.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: The output of training C-SVM is like the following. What do they mean?**   
  
optimization finished, #iter = 219  
nu = 0.431030  
obj = -100.877286, rho = 0.424632  
nSV = 132, nBSV = 107  
Total nSV = 132

obj is the optimal objective value of the dual SVM problem. rho is the bias
term in the decision function sgn(w^Tx - rho). nSV and nBSV are number of
support vectors and bounded support vectors (i.e., alpha_i = C). nu-svm is a
somewhat equivalent form of C-SVM where C is replaced by nu. nu simply shows
the corresponding parameter. More details are in [ libsvm
document](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/papers/libsvm.pdf).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Can you explain more about the model file?**   

After the parameters, each line represents a support vector. Support vectors
are listed in the order of "labels" listed earlier. (i.e., those from the
first class in the "labels" list are grouped first, and so on.) If k is the
total number of classes, in front of a support vector in class j, there are
k-1 coefficients y*alpha where alpha are dual solution of the following two
class problems:  
1 vs j, 2 vs j, ..., j-1 vs j, j vs j+1, j vs j+2, ..., j vs k  
and y=1 in first j-1 coefficients, y=-1 in the remaining k-j coefficients. For
example, if there are 4 classes, the file looks like:

    
    
    
    +-+-+-+--------------------+
    |1|1|1|                    |
    |v|v|v|  SVs from class 1  |
    |2|3|4|                    |
    +-+-+-+--------------------+
    |1|2|2|                    |
    |v|v|v|  SVs from class 2  |
    |2|3|4|                    |
    +-+-+-+--------------------+
    |1|2|3|                    |
    |v|v|v|  SVs from class 3  |
    |3|3|4|                    |
    +-+-+-+--------------------+
    |1|2|3|                    |
    |v|v|v|  SVs from class 4  |
    |4|4|4|                    |
    +-+-+-+--------------------+
    

See also  an illustration using MATLAB/OCTAVE.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Should I use float or double to store numbers in the cache ?**   

We have float as the default as you can store more numbers in the cache. In
general this is good enough but for few difficult cases (e.g. C very very
large) where solutions are huge numbers, it might be possible that the
numerical precision is not enough using only float.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How do I choose the kernel?**   

In general we suggest you to try the RBF kernel first. A recent result by
Keerthi and Lin ([ download paper
here](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/papers/limit.pdf)) shows that if RBF
is used with model selection, then there is no need to consider the linear
kernel. The kernel matrix using sigmoid may not be positive definite and in
general it's accuracy is not better than RBF. (see the paper by Lin and Lin ([
download paper here](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/papers/tanh.pdf)).
Polynomial kernels are ok but if a high degree is used, numerical difficulties
tend to happen (thinking about dth power of (<1) goes to 0 and (>1) goes to
infinity).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Does libsvm have special treatments for linear SVM?**   

No, libsvm solves linear/nonlinear SVMs by the same way. Some tricks may save
training/testing time if the linear kernel is used, so libsvm is **NOT**
particularly efficient for linear SVM, especially when C is large and the
number of data is much larger than the number of attributes. You can either

  * Use small C only. We have shown in the following paper that after C is larger than a certain threshold, the decision function is the same. 

[S. S. Keerthi](http://guppy.mpe.nus.edu.sg/~mpessk/) and **C.-J. Lin**. [
Asymptotic behaviors of support vector machines with Gaussian kernel
](papers/limit.pdf) . _[Neural Computation](http://mitpress.mit.edu/journal-
home.tcl?issn=08997667)_, 15(2003), 1667-1689.

  * Check [liblinear](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/liblinear), which is designed for large-scale linear classification. 

Please also see our [SVM guide](../papers/guide/guide.pdf) on the discussion
of using RBF and linear kernels.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: The number of free support vectors is large. What should I do?**   

This usually happens when the data are overfitted. If attributes of your data
are in large ranges, try to scale them. Then the region of appropriate
parameters may be larger. Note that there is a scale program in libsvm.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Should I scale training and testing data in a similar way?**   

Yes, you can do the following:

    
    
    
    > svm-scale -s scaling_parameters train_data > scaled_train_data
    > svm-scale -r scaling_parameters test_data > scaled_test_data
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Does it make a big difference if I scale each attribute to [0,1] instead of [-1,1]?**   

For the linear scaling method, if the RBF kernel is used and parameter
selection is conducted, there is no difference. Assume Mi and mi are
respectively the maximal and minimal values of the ith attribute. Scaling to
[0,1] means

    
    
    
                    x'=(x-mi)/(Mi-mi)
    

For [-1,1],

    
    
    
                    x''=2(x-mi)/(Mi-mi)-1.
    

In the RBF kernel,

    
    
    
                    x'-y'=(x-y)/(Mi-mi), x''-y''=2(x-y)/(Mi-mi).
    

Hence, using (C,g) on the [0,1]-scaled data is the same as (C,g/2) on the
[-1,1]-scaled data.

Though the performance is the same, the computational time may be different.
For data with many zero entries, [0,1]-scaling keeps the sparsity of input
data and hence may save the time.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: The prediction rate is low. How could I improve it?**   

Try to use the model selection tool grid.py in the python directory find out
good parameters. To see the importance of model selection, please see my talk:
[ A practical guide to support vector classification
](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/talks/freiburg.pdf)

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: My data are unbalanced. Could libsvm handle such problems?**   

Yes, there is a -wi options. For example, if you use

    
    
    
    > svm-train -s 0 -c 10 -w1 1 -w-1 5 data_file
    

the penalty for class "-1" is larger. Note that this -w option is for C-SVC
only.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: What is the difference between nu-SVC and C-SVC?**   

Basically they are the same thing but with different parameters. The range of
C is from zero to infinity but nu is always between [0,1]. A nice property of
nu is that it is related to the ratio of support vectors and the ratio of the
training error.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: The program keeps running (without showing any output). What should I do?**   

You may want to check your data. Each training/testing data must be in one
line. It cannot be separated. In addition, you have to remove empty lines.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: The program keeps running (with output, i.e. many dots). What should I do?**   

In theory libsvm guarantees to converge. Therefore, this means you are
handling ill-conditioned situations (e.g. too large/small parameters) so
numerical difficulties occur.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: The training time is too long. What should I do?**   

For large problems, please specify enough cache size (i.e., -m). Slow
convergence may happen for some difficult cases (e.g. -c is large). You can
try to use a looser stopping tolerance with -e. If that still doesn't work,
you may train only a subset of the data. You can use the program subset.py in
the directory "tools" to obtain a random subset.

If you have extremely large data and face this difficulty, please contact us.
We will be happy to discuss possible solutions.

When using large -e, you may want to check if -h 0 (no shrinking) or -h 1
(shrinking) is faster. See a related question below.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Does shrinking always help?**   

If the number of iterations is high, then shrinking often helps. However, if
the number of iterations is small (e.g., you specify a large -e), then
probably using -h 0 (no shrinking) is better. See the [implementation
document](../papers/libsvm.pdf) for details.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How do I get the decision value(s)?**   

We print out decision values for regression. For classification, we solve
several binary SVMs for multi-class cases. You can obtain values by easily
calling the subroutine svm_predict_values. Their corresponding labels can be
obtained from svm_get_labels. Details are in README of libsvm package.

We do not recommend the following. But if you would like to get values for
TWO-class classification with labels +1 and -1 (note: +1 and -1 but not things
like 5 and 10) in the easiest way, simply add

    
    
    
    		printf("%f\n", dec_values[0]*model->label[0]);
    

after the line

    
    
    
    		svm_predict_values(model, x, dec_values);
    

of the file svm.cpp. Positive (negative) decision values correspond to data
predicted as +1 (-1).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How do I get the distance between a point and the hyperplane?**   

The distance is |decision_value| / |w|. We have |w|^2 = w^Tw = alpha^T Q alpha
= 2*(dual_obj + sum alpha_i). Thus in svm.cpp please find the place where we
calculate the dual objective value (i.e., the subroutine Solve()) and add a
statement to print w^Tw.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: On 32-bit machines, if I use a large cache (i.e. large -m) on a linux machine, why sometimes I get "segmentation fault ?"**   

On 32-bit machines, the maximum addressable memory is 4GB. The Linux kernel
uses 3:1 split which means user space is 3G and kernel space is 1G. Although
there are 3G user space, the maximum dynamic allocation memory is 2G. So, if
you specify -m near 2G, the memory will be exhausted. And svm-train will fail
when it asks more memory. For more details, please read [ this article](http:/
/groups.google.com/groups?hl=en&lr=&ie=UTF-8&selm=3BA164F6.BAFA4FB%40daimi.au.
dk).

The easiest solution is to switch to a 64-bit machine. Otherwise, there are
two ways to solve this. If your machine supports Intel's PAE (Physical Address
Extension), you can turn on the option HIGHMEM64G in Linux kernel which uses
4G:4G split for kernel and user space. If you don't, you can try a software
`tub' which can eliminate the 2G boundary for dynamic allocated memory. The
`tub' is available at <http://www.bitwagon.com/tub.html>.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How do I disable screen output of svm-train and svm-predict ?**   

For commend-line users, use the -q option:

    
    
    
    > ./svm-train -q heart_scale
    

For library users, set the global variable

    
    
    
    extern void (*svm_print_string) (const char *);
    

to specify the output format. You can disable the output by the following
steps:

  1. Declare a function to output nothing: 
    
        
    void print_null(const char *s) {}
    

  2. Assign the output function of libsvm by 
    
        
    svm_print_string = &print_null;
    

Finally, a way used in earlier libsvm is by updating svm.cpp from

    
    
    
    #if 1
    void info(const char *fmt,...)
    

to

    
    
    
    #if 0
    void info(const char *fmt,...)
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I would like to use my own kernel but find out that there are two subroutines for kernel evaluations: k_function() and kernel_function(). Which one should I modify ?**   

The reason why we have two functions is as follows: For the RBF kernel exp(-g
|xi - xj|^2), if we calculate xi - xj first and then the norm square, there
are 3n operations. Thus we consider exp(-g (|xi|^2 - 2dot(xi,xj) +|xj|^2)) and
by calculating all |xi|^2 in the beginning, the number of operations is
reduced to 2n. This is for the training. For prediction we cannot do this so a
regular subroutine using that 3n operations is needed. The easiest way to have
your own kernel is to put the same code in these two subroutines by replacing
any kernel.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: What method does libsvm use for multi-class SVM ? Why don't you use the "1-against-the rest" method ?**   

It is one-against-one. We chose it after doing the following comparison: C.-W.
Hsu and C.-J. Lin. [ A comparison of methods for multi-class support vector
machines ](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/papers/multisvm.pdf), _IEEE
Transactions on Neural
Networks](http://cerium.raunvis.hi.is/~tpr/courseware/svm/hugbunadur.html)_,
13(2002), 415-425.

"1-against-the rest" is a good method whose performance is comparable to
"1-against-1." We do the latter simply because its training time is shorter.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: After doing cross validation, why there is no model file outputted ?**   

Cross validation is used for selecting good parameters. After finding them,
you want to re-train the whole data without the -v option.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why my cross-validation results are different from those in the Practical Guide?**   

Due to random partitions of the data, on different systems CV accuracy values
may be different.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: But on some systems CV accuracy is the same in several runs. How could I use different data partitions?**   

If you use GNU C library, the default seed 1 is considered. Thus you always
get the same result of running svm-train -v. To have different seeds, you can
add the following code in svm-train.c:

    
    
    
    #include <time.h>
    

and in the beginning of the subroutine do_cross_validation(),

    
    
    
    srand(time(0));
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I would like to solve L2-loss SVM (i.e., error term is quadratic). How should I modify the code ?**   

It is extremely easy. Taking c-svc for example, to solve

min_w w^Tw/2 + C \sum max(0, 1- (y_i w^Tx_i+b))^2,

only two places of svm.cpp have to be changed. First, modify the following
line of solve_c_svc from

    
    
    
    	s.Solve(l, SVC_Q(*prob,*param,y), minus_ones, y,
    		alpha, Cp, Cn, param->eps, si, param->shrinking);
    

to

    
    
    
    	s.Solve(l, SVC_Q(*prob,*param,y), minus_ones, y,
    		alpha, INF, INF, param->eps, si, param->shrinking);
    

Second, in the class of SVC_Q, declare C as a private variable:

    
    
    
    	double C;
    

In the constructor replace

    
    
    
    	for(int i=0;i*kernel_function)(i,i);
    

with

    
    
    
            this->C = param.C;
    	for(int i=0;i*kernel_function)(i,i)+0.5/C;
    

Then in the subroutine get_Q, after the for loop, add

    
    
    
            if(i >= start && i < len) 
    		data[i] += 0.5/C;
    

For one-class svm, the modification is exactly the same. For SVR, you don't
need an if statement like the above. Instead, you only need a simple
assignment:

    
    
    
    	data[real_i] += 0.5/C;
    

For large linear L2-loss SVM, please use [LIBLINEAR](../liblinear).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How do I choose parameters for one-class svm as training data are in only one class?**   

You have pre-specified true positive rate in mind and then search for
parameters which achieve similar cross-validation accuracy.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why the code gives NaN (not a number) results?**   

This rarely happens, but few users reported the problem. It seems that their
computers for training libsvm have the VPN client running. The VPN software
has some bugs and causes this problem. Please try to close or disconnect the
VPN client.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why on windows sometimes grid.py fails?**   

This problem shouldn't happen after version 2.85. If you are using earlier
versions, please download the latest one.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why grid.py/easy.py sometimes generates the following warning message?**   

    
    
    
    Warning: empty z range [62.5:62.5], adjusting to [61.875:63.125]
    Notice: cannot contour non grid data!
    

Nothing is wrong and please disregard the message. It is from gnuplot when
drawing the contour.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why the sign of predicted labels and decision values are sometimes reversed?**   

Nothing is wrong. Very likely you have two labels +1/-1 and the first instance
in your data has -1. Think about the case of labels +5/+10. Since SVM needs to
use +1/-1, internally we map +5/+10 to +1/-1 according to which label appears
first. Hence a positive decision value implies that we should predict the
"internal" +1, which may not be the +1 in the input file.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I don't know class labels of test data. What should I put in the first column of the test file?**   

Any value is ok. In this situation, what you will use is the output file of
svm-predict, which gives predicted class labels.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How can I use OpenMP to parallelize LIBSVM on a multicore/shared-memory computer?**   

It is very easy if you are using GCC 4.2 or after.

In Makefile, add -fopenmp to CFLAGS.

In class SVC_Q of svm.cpp, modify the for loop of get_Q to:

    
    
    
    #pragma omp parallel for private(j) 
    			for(j=start;j<len;j++)
    

In the subroutine svm_predict_values of svm.cpp, add one line to the for loop:

    
    
    
    #pragma omp parallel for private(i) 
    		for(i=0;i<l;i++)
    			kvalue[i] = Kernel::k_function(x,model->SV[i],model->param);
    

Then rebuild the package. Kernel evaluations in training/testing will be
parallelized. An example of running this modification on an 8-core machine
using the data set [ijcnn1](../libsvmtools/datasets/binary/ijcnn1.bz2):

8 cores:

    
    
    
    %setenv OMP_NUM_THREADS 8
    %time svm-train -c 16 -g 4 -m 400 ijcnn1
    27.1sec
    

1 core:

    
    
    
    %setenv OMP_NUM_THREADS 1
    %time svm-train -c 16 -g 4 -m 400 ijcnn1
    79.8sec
    

For this data, kernel evaluations take 80% of training time.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How could I know which training instances are support vectors?**   

It's very simple. Please replace

    
    
    
    			if(nonzero[i]) model->SV[p++] = x[i];
    

in svm_train() of svm.cpp with

    
    
    
    			if(nonzero[i]) 
    			{
    				model->SV[p++] = x[i];
    				info("%d\n", perm[i]);
    			}
    

If there are many requests, we may provide a function to return indices of
support vectors. In the mean time, if you need such information in your code,
you can add the array nonzero to the model structure. This array has the same
size as the number of data, so alternatively you can store only indices of
support vectors.

If you use matlab interface, you can easily compare support vectors and
training data to know the indices:

    
    
    
    [tmp index]=ismember(model.SVs, training_data,'rows');
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why training a probability model (i.e., -b 1) takes a longer time?**   

To construct this probability model, we internally conduct a cross validation,
which is more time consuming than a regular training. Hence, in general you do
parameter selection first without -b 1. You only use -b 1 when good parameters
have been selected. In other words, you avoid using -b 1 and -v together.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why using the -b option does not give me better accuracy?**   

There is absolutely no reason the probability outputs guarantee you better
accuracy. The main purpose of this option is to provide you the probability
estimates, but not to boost prediction accuracy. From our experience, after
proper parameter selections, in general with and without -b have similar
accuracy. Occasionally there are some differences. It is not recommended to
compare the two under just a fixed parameter set as more differences will be
observed.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why using svm-predict -b 0 and -b 1 gives different accuracy values?**   

Let's just consider two-class classification here. After probability
information is obtained in training, we do not have

prob > = 0.5 if and only if decision value >= 0.

So predictions may be different with -b 0 and 1.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How can I save images drawn by svm-toy?**   

For Microsoft windows, first press the "print screen" key on the keyboard.
Open "Microsoft Paint" (included in Windows) and press "ctrl-v." Then you can
clip the part of picture which you want. For X windows, you can use the
program "xv" or "import" to grab the picture of the svm-toy window.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I press the "load" button to load data points but why svm-toy does not draw them ?**   

The program svm-toy assumes both attributes (i.e. x-axis and y-axis values)
are in (0,1). Hence you want to scale your data to between a small positive
number and a number less than but very close to 1. Moreover, class labels must
be 1, 2, or 3 (not 1.0, 2.0 or anything else).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I would like svm-toy to handle more than three classes of data, what should I do ?**   

Taking windows/svm-toy.cpp as an example, you need to modify it and the
difference from the original file is as the following: (for five classes of
data)

    
    
    
    30,32c30
    < 	RGB(200,0,200),
    < 	RGB(0,160,0),
    < 	RGB(160,0,0)
    ---
    > 	RGB(200,0,200)
    39c37
    < HBRUSH brush1, brush2, brush3, brush4, brush5;
    ---
    > HBRUSH brush1, brush2, brush3;
    113,114d110
    < 	brush4 = CreateSolidBrush(colors[7]);
    < 	brush5 = CreateSolidBrush(colors[8]);
    155,157c151
    < 	else if(v==3) return brush3;
    < 	else if(v==4) return brush4;
    < 	else return brush5;
    ---
    > 	else return brush3;
    325d318
    < 	  int colornum = 5;
    327c320
    < 		svm_node *x_space = new svm_node[colornum * prob.l];
    ---
    > 		svm_node *x_space = new svm_node[3 * prob.l];
    333,338c326,331
    < 			x_space[colornum * i].index = 1;
    < 			x_space[colornum * i].value = q->x;
    < 			x_space[colornum * i + 1].index = 2;
    < 			x_space[colornum * i + 1].value = q->y;
    < 			x_space[colornum * i + 2].index = -1;
    < 			prob.x[i] = &x_space[colornum * i];
    ---
    > 			x_space[3 * i].index = 1;
    > 			x_space[3 * i].value = q->x;
    > 			x_space[3 * i + 1].index = 2;
    > 			x_space[3 * i + 1].value = q->y;
    > 			x_space[3 * i + 2].index = -1;
    > 			prob.x[i] = &x_space[3 * i];
    397c390
    < 				if(current_value > 5) current_value = 1;
    ---
    > 				if(current_value > 3) current_value = 1;
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: What is the difference between Java version and C++ version of libsvm?**   

They are the same thing. We just rewrote the C++ code in Java.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Is the Java version significantly slower than the C++ version?**   

This depends on the VM you used. We have seen good VM which leads the Java
version to be quite competitive with the C++ code. (though still slower)

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: While training I get the following error message: java.lang.OutOfMemoryError. What is wrong?**   

You should try to increase the maximum Java heap size. For example,

    
    
    
    java -Xmx2048m -classpath libsvm.jar svm_train ...
    

sets the maximum heap size to 2048M.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Why you have the main source file svm.m4 and then transform it to svm.java?**   

Unlike C, Java does not have a preprocessor built-in. However, we need some
macros (see first 3 lines of svm.m4).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: On MS windows, why does python fail to load the pyd file?**   

It seems the pyd file is version dependent. So far we haven't found out a good
solution. Please email us if you have any good suggestions.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How to modify the python interface on MS windows and rebuild the .pyd file ?**   

To modify the interface, follow the instructions given in [
http://www.swig.org/Doc1.3/Python.html#Python
](http://www.swig.org/Doc1.3/Python.html#Python)

If you just want to build .pyd for a different python version, after libsvm
2.5, you can easily use the file Makefile.win. See details in README.
Alternatively, you can use Visual C++. Here is the example using Visual Studio
.Net 2005:

  1. Create a Win32 DLL project and set (in Project->$Project_Name Properties...->Configuration) to "Release." About how to create a new dynamic link library, please refer to <http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms235636(VS.80).aspx>
  2. Add svm.cpp, svmc_wrap.c, pythonXX.lib to your project. 
  3. Add the directories containing Python.h and svm.h to the Additional Include Directories(in Project->$Project_Name Properties...->C/C++->General) 
  4. Add __WIN32__ to Preprocessor definitions (in Project->$Project_Name Properties...->C/C++->Preprocessor) 
  5. Set Create/Use Precompiled Header to Not Using Precompiled Headers (in Project->$Project_Name Properties...->C/C++->Precompiled Headers) 
  6. Build the DLL. 
  7. You may have to rename .dll to .pyd 

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Except the python-C++ interface provided, could I use Jython to call libsvm ?**   

Yes, here are some examples:

    
    
    
    $ export CLASSPATH=$CLASSPATH:~/libsvm-2.4/java/libsvm.jar
    $ ./jython
    Jython 2.1a3 on java1.3.0 (JIT: jitc)
    Type "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
    >>> from libsvm import *
    >>> dir()
    ['__doc__', '__name__', 'svm', 'svm_model', 'svm_node', 'svm_parameter',
    'svm_problem']
    >>> x1 = [svm_node(index=1,value=1)]
    >>> x2 = [svm_node(index=1,value=-1)]
    >>> param = svm_parameter(svm_type=0,kernel_type=2,gamma=1,cache_size=40,eps=0.001,C=1,nr_weight=0,shrinking=1)
    >>> prob = svm_problem(l=2,y=[1,-1],x=[x1,x2])
    >>> model = svm.svm_train(prob,param)
    *
    optimization finished, #iter = 1
    nu = 1.0
    obj = -1.018315639346838, rho = 0.0
    nSV = 2, nBSV = 2
    Total nSV = 2
    >>> svm.svm_predict(model,x1)
    1.0
    >>> svm.svm_predict(model,x2)
    -1.0
    >>> svm.svm_save_model("test.model",model)
    
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How could I install the python interface on Mac OS? **   

Instead of LDFLAGS = -shared in the Makefile, you need

    
    
    
    LDFLAGS = -framework Python -bundle
    

The problem is that under MacOs there is no "shared libraries." Instead they
use "dynamic libraries."

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I typed "make" on a unix system, but it says "Python.h: No such file or directory?"**   

Even though you may have python on your system, very likely python development
tools are not installed. Please check with your system administrator.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I compile the MATLAB interface without problem, but why errors occur while running it?**   

Your compiler version may not be supported/compatible for MATLAB. Please check
[this MATLAB page](http://www.mathworks.com/support/compilers/current_release)
first and then specify the version number. For example, if g++ X.Y is
supported, replace

    
    
    
    CXX = g++
    

in the Makefile with

    
    
    
    CXX = g++-X.Y
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: On 64bit Windows I compile the MATLAB interface without problem, but why errors occur while running it?**   

Please make sure that you have modified make.m to use -largeArrayDims option.
For example,

    
    
    
    mex -largeArrayDims -O -c svm.cpp
    

Moreover, if you use Microsoft Visual Studio, probabally it is not properly
installed. See the explanation [here](http://www.mathworks.com/support/compile
rs/current_release/win64.html#n7).

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Does the MATLAB interface provide a function to do scaling?**   

It is extremely easy to do scaling under MATLAB. The following one-line code
scale each feature to the range of [0.1]:

    
    
    
    (data - repmat(min(data,[],1),size(data,1),1))*spdiags(1./(max(data,[],1)-min(data,[],1))',0,size(data,2),size(data,2))
    

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How could I use MATLAB interface for parameter selection?**   

One can do this by a simple loop. See the following example:

    
    
    
    bestcv = 0;
    for log2c = -1:3,
      for log2g = -4:1,
        cmd = ['-v 5 -c ', num2str(2^log2c), ' -g ', num2str(2^log2g)];
        cv = svmtrain(heart_scale_label, heart_scale_inst, cmd);
        if (cv >= bestcv),
          bestcv = cv; bestc = 2^log2c; bestg = 2^log2g;
        end
        fprintf('%g %g %g (best c=%g, g=%g, rate=%g)\n', log2c, log2g, cv, bestc, bestg, bestcv);
      end
    end
    

You may adjust the parameter range in the above loops.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: I use MATLAB parallel programming toolbox on a multi-core environment for parameter selection. Why the program is even slower?**   

Fabrizio Lacalandra of University of Pisa reported this issue. It seems the
problem is caused by the screen output. If you disable the **info** function
using

    
    
    #if 0,

then the problem may be solved.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How do I use LIBSVM with OpenMP under MATLAB?**   

In Makefile, you need to add -fopenmp to CFLAGS and -lgomp to MEX_OPTION. For
Octave, you need the same modification.

However, a minor problem is that the number of threads cannot be specified in
MATLAB. We tried Version 7.7 (R2008b) and gcc-4.3.3.

    
    
    
    % export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4; matlab
    >> setenv('OMP_NUM_THREADS', '1');
    

Then OMP_NUM_THREADS is still 4 while running the program. Please contact us
if you see how to solve this problem.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How could I generate the primal variable w of linear SVM?**   

Let's start from the binary class and assume you have two labels -1 and +1.
After obtaining the model from calling svmtrain, do the following to have w
and b:

    
    
    
    w = model.SVs' * model.sv_coef;
    b = -model.rho;
    
    if model.Label(1) == -1
      w = -w;
      b = -b;
    end
    

If you do regression or one-class SVM, then the if statement is not needed.

For multi-class SVM, we illustrate the setting in the following example of
running the iris data, which have 3 classes

    
    
      
    > [y, x] = libsvmread('../../htdocs/libsvmtools/datasets/multiclass/iris.scale');
    > m = svmtrain(y, x, '-t 0')
    
    m = 
    
        Parameters: [5x1 double]
          nr_class: 3
           totalSV: 42
               rho: [3x1 double]
             Label: [3x1 double]
             ProbA: []
             ProbB: []
               nSV: [3x1 double]
           sv_coef: [42x2 double]
               SVs: [42x4 double]
    

sv_coef is like:

    
    
    
    +-+-+--------------------+
    |1|1|                    |
    |v|v|  SVs from class 1  |
    |2|3|                    |
    +-+-+--------------------+
    |1|2|                    |
    |v|v|  SVs from class 2  |
    |2|3|                    |
    +-+-+--------------------+
    |1|2|                    |
    |v|v|  SVs from class 3  |
    |3|3|                    |
    +-+-+--------------------+
    

so we need to see nSV of each classes.

    
    
      
    > m.nSV
    
    ans =
    
         3
        21
        18
    

Suppose the goal is to find the vector w of classes 1 vs 3. Then y_i alpha_i
of training 1 vs 3 are

    
    
      
    > coef = [m.sv_coef(1:3,2); m.sv_coef(25:42,1)];
    

and SVs are:

    
    
      
    > SVs = [m.SVs(1:3,:); m.SVs(25:42,:)];
    

Hence, w is

    
    
    
    > w = SVs'*coef;
    

For rho,

    
    
    
    > m.rho
    
    ans =
    
        1.1465
        0.3682
       -1.9969
    > b = -m.rho(2);
    

because rho is arranged by 1vs2 1vs3 2vs3.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: Is there an OCTAVE interface for libsvm?**   

Yes, after libsvm 2.86, the matlab interface works on OCTAVE as well. Please
type

    
    
    
    make octave
    

for installation.

[Go Top]

* * *

**Q: How to handle the name conflict between svmtrain in the libsvm matlab interface and that in MATLAB bioinformatics toolbox?**   

The easiest way is to rename the svmtrain binary file (e.g., svmtrain.mexw32
on 32-bit windows) to a different name (e.g., svmtrain2.mexw32).

[Go Top]

* * *

[LIBSVM home page](http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm)

